Incrementals blog(s), part 1 and 2 (#3053)
alcionai/corso: website/blog/2023-4-10-incrementals-pt2.md

---
slug: incremental-backups-pt2
title: "Incremental Microsoft 365 backups in action"
description: "In part 1 we discussed how there’s more than one way to run backups, and how full and incremental backups differ. With all the background information out of the way, it’s time to see how incremental backups actually come together in Corso. To do this, we’ll discuss things in the context of a running example."
authors: amartinez
tags: [corso, microsoft 365, backups]
date: 2023-04-10
image: ./images/incremental-scale.png
---
<!-- vale Vale.Spelling = NO -->

![diagram of an incremental scale encoder By Lambtron - Own work, CC BY-SA 4.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=81494644](./images/incremental-scale.png)
<!-- vale Vale.Spelling = YES -->

> In [part 1](https://corsobackup.io/blog/incremental-backups-pt1/) we discussed how there’s more than

Reviewer: Please use relative links internally.

Author: Relative links are in, looking to see if this passes `make check` now

> In [part 1](https://corsobackup.io/blog/incremental-backups-pt1/) we discussed how there’s more than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Part 1](https://corsobackup.io/blog/incremental-backups-pt1/) we discussed how there’s more than
```

one way to run backups, and how full and incremental backups differ.

With all the background information out of the way, it’s time to see how

> incremental backups actually come together in Corso. To do this, we’ll discuss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
incremental backups are implemented in Corso. To do this, we’ll discuss
```

in the root folder:

```JSON
- folder1 (directory, ID: 1)
  - super secret file1.txt (file, ID: 2)
  - temp.log (file, ID: 3)
- folder2 (directory, ID: 4)
  - secret file.docx (file, ID: 5)
- folder3 (directory, ID: 6)
  - static file.docx (file, ID: 7)
- folder4 (directory, ID: 8)
  - plain file.txt (file, ID: 9)
  - folder5 (directory, ID: 10)
    - update.log (file, ID: 11)
```

The corresponding Corso backup would have the following items in the kopia item
data snapshot (some prefix folders elided for brevity and file/folder names use
directly for clarity):

```JSON
- onedrive
  - root
    - folder1
      - super secret file1.txt
      - temp.log
    - folder2
      - secret file.docx
    - folder3
      - static file.docx
    - folder4
      - plain file.txt
      - folder5
        - update.log
- onedriveMetadata
  - folderMap.json (provides mapping of folder IDs to paths)
  - delta.json (provides delta tokens for endpoints)
```

Since this post is all about fetching only the changes since the last backup,
let’s also assume that between the time of the last backup and now the user has
done the equivalent to the following commands in their OneDrive:

```bash

> rm -rf root/folder2 (directory subtree deletion)

Reviewer: I think this is OK but would have been nice to use Windows PS or cmd commands.

Reviewer 2: I have no preference if something else would work better. I just happened to use linux commands cause that's what I default to 😅

Author: Will use PS commands in my next tutorial, I promise :)

value.

Together, the values of the current and previous paths allow Corso to represent
a set of changes to the hierarchy in an order-independent fashion. That means
the Collections always represent the same set of changes no matter what order
other components of Corso see the Collections in. The “state” of a Collection
can always be determined by comparing the values of the two paths. The table
below shows the different possible states.

| Previous Path | Current Path | State |
| --- | --- | --- |
| any value | empty | deleted folder |
| empty | any value | new folder |
| different from current | different from previous | folder moved |
| same as current | same as previous | no change |

To see where this representation and order-independence really comes in handy,
consider the case of `folder2`. Between the backups the original `folder2` and
all it’s items was deleted and a new folder with the same path was created with
a new item. From the user’s perspective and if potential differences in
permissions are ignored, there’s not really a difference between the old and new
`folder2`s. The items they have may be different, but the user generally doesn’t

> inspect the M365 IDs of folders, so the fact that they reside at the same

Reviewer: There are 10 references to M365 in these blog posts. Please replace with Microsoft 365.

Author: each instance replaced

The final thing Corso needs to do is merge the set of updated indexing
information with indexing information from the base backup. Merging the two
allows Corso to filter backup details and restore inputs down to just the
selected items without having to traverse multiple backups to find all the
information.

To merge indexing information, Corso first loads the indexing information from
the base backup. Then, it compares the entries in the base backup’s index with
the set of references collected in the previous part. Entries that match are
updated if needed (the item’s location in OneDrive may have changed) and
added to the new set of indexing information for the current backup.

Once the indexing information has been merged all data for the backup is
complete except the BackupModel that acts as the root reference for the backup.
The backup model summarizes what happened in the backup and contains references
to the index information and the item data snapshot so they can be found later.
The model itself is also stored in kopia so it’s data is encrypted as well. Once
the BackupModel is added to kopia the Corso backup is considered complete and
can be used for future restores.

> 

Reviewer: Needs a conclusion that covers a summary of what was covered in this blog post, pointers back to part 1, and why what we discussed is important.

Author: added a brief conclusion and link back to pt 1
